# Block compressed images sample
## Requires
* Visual Studio 2013
## License
* MS-LPL
## Technologies
* DirectX
* Windows Runtime
## Topics
* DDS files
* block compressed images
## IsPublished
* True
## ModifiedDate
* 2013-11-25 04:21:15
## Description

<div id="mainSection">
<p>Demonstrates how to create and use block compressed images (DDS files) in a Windows Store app.
</p>
<dl><dt><a id="How_to_use_this_sample"></a><a id="how_to_use_this_sample"></a><a id="HOW_TO_USE_THIS_SAMPLE"></a>How to use this sample
</dt><dd>
<p>This sample project uses block compressed (DDS) images that are generated by the ImageContentPipeline C&#43;&#43; project. Before running the this sample, you must first perform the following steps:</p>
<ol>
<li>In <b>Solution Explorer</b>, right click on the <b>ImageContentPipeline C&#43;&#43; project</b> and select
<b>Build</b>. This project has the ImageContentTask custom build step set up to convert guitar-transparent.png and oldWood4_nt.jpg (in the
<b>OriginalAssets</b> folder) to block compressed (DDS) form in the <b>BlockCompressedAssets</b> folder.
<p class="note"><b>Note</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;You can view the ImageContentTask settings by right clicking on one of the images and selecting
<b>Properties</b>.</p>
</li><li>In <b>Solution Explorer</b>, right click on the <b>BlockCompressedAssets folder</b> &gt;
<b>Add</b> &gt; <b>Existing Item</b>. </li><li>Navigate to the <b>BlockCompressedAssets folder</b> and add the two DDS images. (guitar-transparent.dds and oldWood4_nt.dds)
</li></ol>
</dd><dt><a id="About_block_compressed_images_in__"></a><a id="about_block_compressed_images_in__"></a><a id="ABOUT_BLOCK_COMPRESSED_IMAGES_IN__"></a>About block compressed images in Windows Store apps:
</dt><dd>
<p>Block compression is a technique for reducing GPU memory consumption of image assets, as described in
<a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/bb694531">Block Compression (Direct3D 10)</a>. Any Microsoft Visual Studio C&#43;&#43; project may be used to generate block compressed images by adding the
<b>ImageContentTask build customization</b> to the project, as described in <a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh972446">
Using 3-D Assets in Your Game or App</a>. Windows Store app can support DDS files using the following block compression formats:</p>
<ul>
<li>BC1_UNORM (for opaque or 1 bit transparency images) </li><li>BC2_UNORM (for images with transparency) </li><li>BC3_UNORM (for images with transparency that is spatially correlated) </li></ul>
<p>In addition, the following restrictions must be observed:</p>
<ul>
<li>Select <b>Yes</b> for the <b>Convert to pre-multiplied alpha format</b> option in Visual Studio.
</li><li>Select <b>No</b> for the <b>Generate Mips</b> option in Visual Studio. </li><li>The image must be a multiple of 4 pixels in width and height. </li></ul>
</dd><dt><a id="Generating_your_own_image_assets"></a><a id="generating_your_own_image_assets"></a><a id="GENERATING_YOUR_OWN_IMAGE_ASSETS"></a>Generating your own image assets
</dt><dd>
<p>The <b>ImageContentPipeline</b> project has been customized to make DDS asset creation more convenient:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>By default, any new images that are set as Item Type = Image Content Pipeline will use premultiplied alpha and will not generate mipmaps. This matches the requirements of Windows Store apps.
</p>
<p class="note"><b>Note</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;You still must select a valid compression mode (BC1_UNORM, BC2_UNORM, or BC3_UNORM) and ensure that your image is a multiple of 4 pixels in width and height.</p>
<p></p>
<p>The project output directory is set to <b>BlockCompressedAssets</b> regardless of platform or configuration.</p>
</li></ul>
</dd></dl>
<h2><a id="related_topics"></a>Related topics</h2>
<dl><dt><a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/bb694531">Block Compression (Direct3D 10)</a>
</dt><dt><a href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh972446">Using 3-D Assets in Your Game or App</a>
</dt><dt><a href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=227694">Windows app samples</a>
</dt></dl>
<h2>Operating system requirements</h2>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Client</th>
<td><dt>Windows&nbsp;8.1 </dt></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>Server</th>
<td><dt>Windows Server&nbsp;2012&nbsp;R2 </dt></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h2>Build the sample</h2>
<p></p>
<ol>
<li>Start Visual Studio&nbsp;2013 and select <b>File</b> &gt; <b>Open</b> &gt; <b>Project/Solution</b>.
</li><li>Go to the directory in which you unzipped the sample. Go to the directory named for the sample, and double-click the Visual Studio&nbsp;2013 Solution (.sln) file.
</li><li>Press F7 or use <b>Build</b> &gt; <b>Build Solution</b> to build the sample. </li></ol>
<p></p>
<h2>Run the sample</h2>
<p>To debug the app and then run it, press F5 or use <b>Debug</b> &gt; <b>Start Debugging</b>. To run the app without debugging, press Ctrl&#43;F5 or use
<b>Debug</b> &gt; <b>Start Without Debugging</b>. </p>
</div>
